Homework #1
COSC 6353 / 4353

Assignment Date: September 07, 2015
Due Date: September 15, 2015

Description: 
In this homework we will come up with an initial design for a program. 
We will not be writing any code in this homework, but only looking at some initial design ideas.

Design an application that will perform the following actions:
1.	Prompt the user and read in user date of birth in (mm/dd/yyyy) format.
2.	Print out following summary from the date of birth:
	- What day of the week they were born? e.g. "You were born on a Friday."
	- Their Zodiac sign. e.g. "Your zodiac sign is capricorn."

Answer these questions:

1. How would you design this program?
	We would like to follow the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC). I would choose waterfall model. It contains various stages like requirements gathering, design and coding and testing. 
	•	Requirements gathering: In this phase, we gather all the prerequisites for the program such as inputs etc.
	•	Design: Design phase mainly contains writing the algorithm for the given case. 
	•	Coding: This phase involves writing the actual code for the given scenario.
	•	Testing: This phase involves writing the test cases. Then the program is executed to validate and verify if it meets the requirements, if it satisfies the given scenario.


2. Discuss what programming language you would use.
	We would like to use C# for coding this scenario. C# has namespaces which contain simple methods, by the use of which we can extract the day of week easily without coding numerous lines.  

3. How you'd structure the program, what libraries you'd use?
	The algorithm for the given case is as follows:
	Assign Zodiac signs for certain date interval of months of the year
	Input date
	Input month
	Get current year
	Check whether the inputs form a valid date
	Convert the inputs to a DateTime format
	If valid date
		Then
	Get the day of the week
	Print day
	Check where the retrieved date falls into which category
	Else
	Invalid Date;

	The following libraries will be included in the program:
	•	System namespace: It contains all the basic classes console, Convert, string.
	•	System.Globalization namespace: It contains the specific culture formats to convert the given inputs into a valid datetime format.
NUnit: We would use NUnit framework for automated testing of the code.

Include a separate file (may be a scan of hand drawn picture if you like, or a PDF, tiff, word document, etc.) which shows a UML diagram of your design.


